---
slug: "v13.0-release"
title: "v13.0"
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: -59
---

# eCalc v13.0

## Changes in results?

> ✔️ **YES**: As a consequence of the bug fixes below, some numbers in results may have minor changes.

## Features

## Bug Fixes

- There was an issue with returning the correct speed for the common shaft in a multiple streams and pressure train with interstage pressure when the interstage pressure could not be reached (invalid points). This has been fixed.
- When aggregating rates we want invalid points to be treated as zero. In this case, aggregation of emissions resulted sometimes in 0, if at least one contributor had invalid results. This will now be correct. As a consequence of this, other places where we have invalid points, will now have results different from 0, such as power.  To emphasize, accepting models with invalid points in eCalc is ALWAYS frowned upon, as we cannot guarantee correctness of those points.

## Breaking changes

### Facility Inputs Adjustments

`ADJUSTMENT` section for `FACILITY_INPUTS` has been removed. This section was rarely used and was of limited usefulness. The original data was adjusted early in the process, 
and users would not get any extra functionality from using this section, rather than being able to reuse the same original data with different adjustments, or to make it easy to adjust
data on-the-fly, to e.g. reflect deterioration over time. See migration guide for how to adjust data now.

### CLI

- `--csv` will no longer disable the csv file, `--no-csv` should be used instead.
