---
slug: v7-0-release
title: v7.0
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: 10
---

# eCalc v7.0


## *Features*

* Add VARIABLE_SPEED_COMPRESSOR_TRAIN_MULTIPLE_STREAMS_AND_PRESSURES compressor model. See `Variable speed compressor train model with multiple streams and pressures`.
* Add GERG model to FLUID model as EOS_MODEL. Now available GERG_PR and GERG_SRK.
* Add UNITS: EFFICIENCY to compressor charts and pump charts. Plus additional input unit support.
* Add support for both water and H2O in fluid composition.
* Add POWER_ADJUSTMENT_CONSTANT for all applicable models to adjust power/energy usage with a constant factor.
* Add water as allowed `FLUID model` component.
* Improve models documentation
* Deprecation: [CONDITION](../about/references/keywords/CONDITION) is now a single expression instead of list.

  If you previously had a list it is recommended to use the [CONDITIONS](../about/references/keywords/CONDITIONS) keyword instead. This will become a requirement in a future release.

  Alternatively you could merge the conditions to a single expression. This is what is done automatically when using the [CONDITIONS](../about/references/keywords/CONDITIONS) keyword.

  .. code-block:: diff

    + CONDITION: expression1 {*} expression2
    - CONDITION:
    -   - expression1
    -   - expression2

## *Fixes*

* Handle date columns year as year and not timestamps
* Handle suppressed ecalc errors and division by zero
* Handle timeseries with one entry
* Handle poorly formatted csv data with tabs, multiple spaces and mixed float/integers.
* Handle 0 regularity
* Handle emission intensity when only one timestep
* Changed emission intensity to NaN when hydrocarbon export is zero

## CLI


*Feature*

* Major revision of CLI for future development.
* Add Flow diagram support
* Improve logging, warnings and error messages. DEBUG should now give a lot of information.
* Add support for list in 'CONDITION' keyword

*Fix*

* Fix issue when using dates in ELECTRICITY2FUEL