---
slug: v7-1-release
title: v7.1
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: 4
---

# eCalc v7.1


## *Features*

* Add new [CATEGORY](../about/references/keywords/CATEGORY) with name *OFFSHORE-WIND* to report power usage from offshore windfarms. Should be negative load to deduct from genset, if what is supplied externally. Also added to `LTP Reporting`. See excerpt example below:

    ```yaml
    - NAME: wind_turbine
      CATEGORY: OFFSHORE-WIND
      ENERGY_USAGE_MODEL:
      TYPE: DIRECT
      LOAD: -4.4 # MW
    ```



* Add new [CATEGORY](../about/references/keywords/CATEGORY) with name *TURBINE-GENERATOR* and *POWER-FROM-SHORE* to report power consumption separately from installation and onshore (land) for generators. If not set,
  defaults to *TURBINE-GENERATOR*. See excerpt example below:

    ```yaml
    GENERATORSETS:
      - NAME: genset
        CATEGORY: TURBINE-GENERATOR
        ELECTRICITY2FUEL: A_genset
        ...
        ...
      - NAME: power_from_shore
        CATEGORY: POWER-FROM-SHORE
        ELECTRICITY2FUEL: onshore_power
        ...
    ```

where *electricity2fuel* for onshore power in general would have power map to 0 fuel usage

* Add new [CATEGORY](../about/references/keywords/CATEGORY) with name *GAS-DRIVEN-COMPRESSOR* to report power consumption for gas(-turbine)-driven compressors for LTP. Also added to `LTP Reporting`. See excerpt example below:

    ```yaml
    - NAME: gascompression_2
      CATEGORY: GAS-DRIVEN-COMPRESSOR
      ENERGY_USAGE_MODEL:
        TYPE: COMPRESSOR
    ```

* Allow single speed and variable speed compressor train to run with zero pressure and non-zero rate. Will raise warning, and affected time steps will not be calculated, but eCalc will run.
* Add a *POWER* column data to the *COMPRESSOR_TABULAR* csv-file for a fuel-driven *SAMPLED_COMPRESSOR* in order to also get energy reported as power (MW). See `Header requirements for the sampled compressor csv file`
* Add surge control margin to variable speed compressor charts. See `Surge control margin for variable speed compressor chart`.
* Ensure non-infinite loops by setting max 50 iterations for compressor models. Will raise warning in the logger if not converged.
* Bug in max rate calculation for simplified compressor train. Wrong convergence criterion leading to too early exit from iteration.
* VARIABLES can be specified in yaml and referred to in expressions.

    ```yaml
    VARIABLES:
      salt_water_injection:
        VALUE: SIM1:COL1 {*} 2
    ```

  Use this variable by referencing it as `$var.salt_water_injection` in an
  expression.

    ```yaml
    EXPRESSION: "$var.salt_water_injection {/} 2"
    ```

  See [VARIABLES](../about/references/keywords/VARIABLES) for more information.

*Breaking changes*

* CONVERT_TO_RATE no longer supported. If this was something you used, let us know so we can know the use case.

## CLI

* Experimental: Add JSON v3 output to cover needs that are no longer supported by v2 because of tight coupling with core code. Both new and old format is provided, and will be stored when using the --json argument.
