---
slug: v7-2-release
title: v7.2
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: 5
---

# eCalc v7.2


## *Features*

* Add :code:`ecalc show yaml model.yaml` command.

  The command will only read the yaml file, include the files that should be included, then show the resulting yaml.
  There is no need to run the model beforehand.

  This should help figure out problems with :code:`!include`.


* BREAKING CHANGE!: [CATEGORY](../about/references/keywords/CATEGORY) is MANDATORY for Generator Sets. To be able to handle this, the `MISCELLANEOUS` category
  has been introduced for Generator sets for users to be able to set this to generator sets that do not apply to other categories,
  and to e.g. except for LTP output.

  .. code-block:: yaml

    GENERATORSETS:
      - NAME: genset
        CATEGORY: TURBINE-GENERATOR
        ELECTRICITY2FUEL: A_genset
        ...
        ...
      - NAME: power_from_shore
        CATEGORY: POWER-FROM-SHORE
        ELECTRICITY2FUEL: onshore_power
        ...

* EXPERIMENTAL: Add show results command to cli.

  When running ecalc, either by ``ecalc run model.yaml`` or ``ecalc model.yaml`` we will store the results in your
  home-directory. You don't have to specify any specific arguments for this to happen.

  A new command ``ecalc show results`` is introduced. This command can be used to display all the results, or you can use
  the argument ``--name`` to only show results for a specific component.

  What is a component? Currently the supported component names are the name of the model (filename without the yaml ending),
  installation names, generator set names, electricity consumer names and fuel consumer names.

  ``ecalc show results --name "component name"`` will give a json file with only the specified component results.

  The output format can be changed to csv by specifying ``--output-format csv``. This will try to give all the data represented
  in the json output, but some of it will be filtered as it does not fit the tabular csv format.

  **Examples**

  Show all results in json format: ``ecalc show results`` or ``ecalc show results --output-format json``
  Show model results (totals) in json format ``ecalc show results --name model`` (if using the model.yaml file as shown above)
  Show model results (totals) in csv format ``ecalc show results --name model --output-format csv``

  Deprecation warning: Running ecalc without the 'run' argument  is deprecated. Use 'ecalc run arg1 ... argN' instead.
  As this is an experimental feature ``ecalc run`` might see breaking changes in future releases, you are free to ignore
  the deprecation warning for a while if you don't want to be exposed to those changes. ``ecalc show`` will still work as
  expected.

## *Fixes*

* Deprecate json_v2 output, json_v3 should be used instead. json_v2 (and json_v1) will be removed in the next release.
* Allow Single and Variable Speed Compressor Trains to run regardless of non-convergence in numeric root finding algorithms. This is a rate situation and caused by numeric instability. If this happens there will be logged an error in the log together with relevant data. Use result with caution.
* Use Brent's method instead of secant method to find roots used in numeric iterations for compressor models. Faster and more robust compared to old secant method.
* Correct prioritazion of compressor system when the compressor system is more complex than only splitting rates on more and more duplicate compressor trains.
* Added warning both in documentation and code about using `Generic compressor chart with design point calculated from input data` in a `COMPRESSOR_SYSTEM energy usage model`
* Improved units and results mapping. The consumed energy is now reported under energy_usage, and power_rate is included if relevant regardless of energy_usage.
* Suction pressures were not correctly set, and defaulting to 0, in some cases when a list of pressures were given.
* In cases when only one timestep was evaluated in a consumer system, and the first prioritized operational setting was outside capacity, it was nevertheless chosen.
