---
slug: v7-4-release
title: v7.4
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: 5
---

# eCalc v7.4


##  *Features*

* Added is_valid and is_extrapolation flags in JSON-output.
* Added is_valid flags to all energy usage model and consumer model results.
* Add additional result data when compressors are running outside of capacity
* Add Direct Emitters to JSON-output.
* Add power capacity margin for generator set results.
* Add design head, rate and efficiency for generic compressor charts from design point.
* Add UNITS to PUMP_CHART_SINGLE_SPEED and PUMP_CHART_VARIABLE_SPEED
* Added FixedSpeedPressureControl to VariableSpeedCompressorTrainCommonShaft and VariableSpeedCompressorTrainCommonShaftMultipleStreamsAndPressures, enabling eCalc to possibly find a solution either along the minimum speed curve or through choking if the discharge pressure at minimum speed it too high. Default set to DOWNSTREAM_CHOKING.

* **BREAKING CHANGE!**: When specifying a stage in a VariableSpeedCompressorTrainCommonShaftMultipleStreamsAndPRessures, the STREAM yaml keyword has been changed from a string to a list, to allow for multiple streams entering or leaving the compressor train at the same stage.

 .. code-block:: yaml

    STAGES:
      - INLET_TEMPERATURE: <inlet temperature in Celsius for stage>
        COMPRESSOR_CHART: <reference to a compressor chart model defined in MODELS>
        STREAM: <Opional>
        - <reference stream from STREAMS for one in- or outgoing stream. Optional>
        - <reference stream from STREAMS for another in- or outgoing stream. Optional>

* **BREAKING CHANGE!**: A CONSUMER with a CONSUMER_SYSTEM. Mixing between SYSTEM and non-system is no longer supported.

* **BREAKING CHANGE!**: User MUST specify FUEL or POWER as one of the headers in TABULAR format. This was documented as mandatory, but not validated properly, hence eCalc would be allowed to run assuming POWER (incorrectly).

## *Fixes*

- Having several ingoing/outgoing streams at the same compressor train stage should now actually work.
- Extrapolation flag in JSON/CSV-output now correctly indicates if data has been extrapolated. is_valid now indicates if datapoint is valid when extrapolation is turned off.
- Speed-column no longer required for single speed compressor chart read from file
- Support time-slots for CONSUMER with ENERGY_USAGE_MODEL TYPE: CONSUMER_SYSTEM
- Re-add support for FUEL timeslots
- Failing compressor train when target pressure is too low and pressure control is used. Now correctly runs with valid result and chart area flag "below minimum flow rate".
- Use of TABULATED energy_usage_model was not supported in new json result format causing error, will now work.
- Incorrect default energy_usage_type POWER was always set for TABULATED energy_usage_model. Now it will be set based on FUEL or POWER column specified in facility input. eCalc will fail if neither FUEL nor POWER is specified in the facility inputs file. Patched in v7.4.1
- Correct LTP gasTurbineCompressorConsumption calculation when a consumer is not initialized at first timestep of global time vector. Patched in v7.4.2
- Choke discharge pressure when using DOWNSTREAM_PRESSURE_CONTROL for variable speed compressor train. Patched in v7.4.2
- eCalc must support when using more than one energy usage model for calculating FuelConsumerPowerConsumption for LTP. Previously this resulted in missing calculations. Patched in v7.4.3.

