---
slug: v7-5-release
title: v7.5
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: 5
---

# eCalc v7.5

## Features

* Add YAML interface for PRESSURE_CONTROL for Single and Variable Speed Compressor Train
* Add support for PRESSURE_CONTROL: NONE for Variable Speed Compressor Train
* Run GENERATORSETS at max capacity with invalid timestep-flags instead of forward-filling last valid value (extrapcorrection)
* Add support for uploading models as a zip-file
* Apply resampling by FREQUENCY when exporting CSV
* Support single speed compressor chart as csv resource
* Improved support for uploading YAML-files. Comments, whitespaces, inline lists should now be preserved instead of removed and reformatted

## *Fixes*

* Add missing power loss factor for Compressor Train Variable Speed Multiple Pressure model.
* Ensure that GENERATORSETS stops when consumer power rate is zero
* Ensure invalid time-step and zero power rate for the genset when the el-consumer(s) starts before the Genset providing power.
* Correct handling of power rate in LTP export wen combining compressors with and without fuel in temporal models.

* validate order of temporal models

  Temporal models should be specified in chronological order

* validation of variable names

  Make sure the full variable name is matched against the regular expression.
  Previously we allowed special characters for all characters except the first.

* Avoid crash when ENERGY_USAGE_MODELs are defined only outside the time window of the CONSUMER.

* Proper result handling when GENERATORSETS has not yet started and el-consumer is running.


## CLI

* add --skip-validation argument

  Make it possible to skip the validation step, passing the data to the next step. This will still have some
  validation and might give a more clear error message.

* add --simple-output argument

  Use simple output argument to get a simplified result object showing only the most relevant results such as
  energy consumption and emissions.