---
slug: v8.16-release
title: v8.16 (Latest)
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: -1001
---

# eCalc

## Breaking Changes
- New unit-format for venting emitters, aligned to what is used in other parts of yaml-file. Example: Example: Unit should be now be written as KG_PER_DAY, and not kg/d.

## New Features
- Make electrical- and mechanical available at asset level. This is needed to make plots split by mechanical- and electrical power in web (will be implemented in future version).
- Make venting emitters emission names case insensitive: Avoid splitting same emission-types into separate ones, due to different use of upper- and lower case.

## Bug Fixes
- Detect duplicate keys in yaml file and raise error, pointing to where in the yaml-file the error occurs.
- Do not allow for negative recirculation if rate is above max flow rate for a compressor chart. If the compressor stage is out of capacity already, the available capacity is set to zero.
- Ensure regularity is evaluated for all installations when only venting emitters. eCalc failed if only `VENTING_EMITTERS` were specified (without `FUELCONUMERS` and `GENERATORSETS`), because installation results were empty. This fix ensures to get results, and to evaluate regularity, even if the installation results are empty.
- Max power from shore values: Output values did not correspond to input in LTP-report, when output frequency is set to e.g. `YEAR`. This is now fixed.
- Use custom type pydantic class to wrap ndarray and avoid validation problem: This fix removes potentially confusing warning in the validation.
- Wrong unit max power from shore: The unit for `Max Usage from Shore column` in LTP-report was GWh, but is now correctly reported as MW.

## Documentation
- Add `MAXIMUM_POWER` to eCalc yaml-keyword list.
- Fix typos.
- Modify changelog order.
- Update description of `VENTING_EMITTERS`.

