---
slug: "v8.22-release"
title: "v8.22"
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: -31
---

# eCalc v8.22

## New Features

- In the results, the fluid streams entering and leaving a compressor train are now defined separately from the fluid
  streams entering and leaving the individual compressor stages (pressure, temperature, composition, density, etc.).
  This used to be covered only by reporting the inlet/outlet pressures before choking.
  If there is any upstream choking, this will happen between the inlet of the compressor train, and the inlet of the
  first compressor stage. This means that in a situation with upstream choking, the fluid stream entering the compressor
  train will have higher e.g. pressure and density than the fluid stream entering the first compressor stage. If there
  is any downstream choking, this will happen between the outlet of the last compressor stage and the outlet of the
  compressor train. This means that in a situation with downstream choking, the fluid stream leaving the compressor
  train will have lower e.g. pressure and density than the fluid stream leaving the last compressor stage.


## Bug Fixes

- If a compressor train is not able to reach the requested inlet or outlet pressure, both the compressor stages and
  the compressor train used to be reported as invalid. This is now changed. If the compressor stages are operating within
  their capacity, they will now be reported as valid even if the compressor train as a whole is not able to reach
  the requested inlet or outlet pressures.

## Breaking changes

- This version includes a rewrite of the yaml validation, which should catch more errors than before.
- Economics has been removed. TAX, PRICE and QUOTA keywords will now give an error.
- Misplaced keywords will now cause an error instead of being ignored.
    