---
slug: v8.6-release
title: v8.6
authors: ecalc-team
tags: [release, eCalc]
sidebar_position: 16
---

# eCalc



## New Features

- Added a ModelInputFailureStatus. If there are errors in the rate or pressure input to a compressor a failure code will be returned in the compressors failure_status (INVALID_RATE_INPUT or INVALID_SUCTION/INTERMEDIATE/DISCHARGE_PRESSURE_INPUT.
- Rate type is included in header for csv export. E.g. `Sm3/sd` for streaming day and `Sm3/cd` for calendar day.
- Generating generic variable speed compressor charts from input rates/heads has a new and improved algorithm. The new algorithm tends to favour increase in head compared to the previous one. Running old models with this new algorithm may lead to slight changes in the results.

## Fixes

- Fixed bug giving small numerical difficulties when calculating maximum standard rate for a simplified compressor train
- Ensure that start date and end date in the global time vector is consistent with the requested output frequency. This makes sure that resampling (typically for monthly or yearly reporting) can be done even when the start or end date is outside of the requested reporting frequency (e.g. starting in August when the reporting frequency is yearly), and that the resampling is done without dropping volumes. 

## Breaking changes

- Economic details have been deprecated from eCalc. Input data such as `tax`, `quota` and `price` for fuel and emissions will now be ignored, and will hence also no longer be reported. If you have used those in your model, they will be ignored. It will be treated as an error in a future version of eCalc.
